= gettext_column_mapping

If you use mutoh/gettext or grosser/fast_gettext to localize your active_record models, this library is for you.
This gem only works for now with mysql


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Requirements
Gem requirements :
* mutoh/gettext_activerecord >= 2.1.0 or grosser/fast_gettext or your own gettext implementation
* activerecord >= 2.3.0
* mysql >= 2.7

== Features/Problems

This library is extracted from another application with its requirements.  So it may not fit your project
It must be refactored and improved.

* Better API methods naming ?
* Add more atomic tests
* Must accept different output than UTF-8

== Example

    gem install gettext_column_mapping
    gem install fast_gettext gettext_i18n_rails


Rails 2.3.x Usage

    # config/environment.rb

    config.gem 'gettext_column_mapping'

    # config/initializers/gettext.rb

    GettextColumnMapping::Initializer.run do |config|
      config.config_file = File.expand_path('../../column_mapping.yml', __FILE__)
    end

Rails 3 Usage

    # Gemfile
    gem 'gettext_column_mapping', :source => 'git://github.com/hallelujah/gettext_column_mapping.git', :require => 'gettext_column_mapping/railtie'

    # config/application.rb

    config.gettext_column_mapping.config_file = File.expand_path('../column_mapping.yml',__FILE__)

All Rails

    # config/initializers/gettext.rb

    # Configure FastGettext
    FastGettext.add_text_domain 'app_domain', :path => File.join(RAILS_ROOT,'locale')
    FastGettext.default_available_locales = ['en','fr','es'] #all you want to allow
    FastGettext.default_text_domain = 'app_domain'

    # config/column_mapping.yml

    my_namespace/foo:
      class_name: OtherFoo
      column_names:
        my_label: Label
      

See a working {gettext_column_mapping rails examples}[http://github.com/hallelujah/gettext_column_mapping_example_rails.git]

Rails is not mandatory, you can use it in your other project taht satisfies all requirements above !!

Just use  the GettextColumnMapping::Initializer.run method


== Rake task

You can add in your Rakefile to have gettext_column_mapping:.* tasks 

    GettextColumnMapping::Tasks.new("version","text_domain") do |t|
      t.options_store = {
        :po_root => "./po",
        :msgmerge => [:verbose, :no_fuzzy_matching]
      }
      t.locale_path = './locale'
      t.options_finder = {:to => "./static/data.rb", :ignore_tables => "schema_migrations"}
    end


== Maintainer
Ramihajamalala Hery <hery at rails-royce.org>

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Ramihajamalala Hery < hery at rails-royce.org >, released under the MIT license
